Add security configuration documentation and migrate security docs di… (#18996)
pingcap/docs: best-practices-for-security-configuration.md

| TEM               | 4110        | HTTP       |
| TEM               | 4111        | HTTP       |
| TEM               | 4112        | HTTP       |
| TEM               | 4113        | HTTP       |
| TEM               | 4124        | HTTP       |
| Prometheus        | 9090        | HTTP       |
| Grafana           | 3000        | HTTP       |
| AlertManager      | 9093        | HTTP       |
| AlertManager      | 9094        | Protocol   |
| Node Exporter     | 9100        | HTTP       |
| Blackbox Exporter | 9115       | HTTP       |
| NG Monitoring     | 12020       | HTTP       |

It is recommended to only expose the `4000` port for the database and the `9000` port for the Grafana dashboard to general users, while restricting other ports using network security policies or firewalls. Here’s an example of using `iptables` to limit port access:

```shell
# Allow internal port communication from the whitelist of component IP addresses
sudo iptables -A INPUT -s internal IP address range -j ACCEPT

# Only open ports 4000 and 9000 to external users
sudo iptables -A INPUT -p tcp --dport 4000 -j ACCEPT
sudo iptables -A INPUT -p tcp --dport 9000 -j ACCEPT

> # Default deny all other traffic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Deny all other traffic by default
```

sudo iptables -P INPUT DROP
```

If you need to access TiDB Dashboard, it is recommended to [configure a reverse proxy](/dashboard/dashboard-ops-reverse-proxy.md#use-tidb-dashboard-behind-a-reverse-proxy) to securely provide services to external networks on a separate port.

## Resolving False Positives from Third-Party MySQL Vulnerability Scanners

> Most vulnerability scanners detect MySQL vulnerabilities based on version information. Since TiDB is MySQL protocol-compatible but not MySQL itself, version-based vulnerability scans may lead to false positives. It is recommended that vulnerability scans focus on principle-based scanning. If compliance scanning tools require a MySQL version, you can [modify the server version number](/faq/high-reliability-faq.md#does-tidb-support-modifying-the-mysql-version-string-of-the-server-to-a-specific-one-that-is-required-by-the-security-vulnerability-scanning-tool) to meet the requirement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most vulnerability scanners detect MySQL vulnerabilities based on version information. Because TiDB is MySQL protocol-compatible but not MySQL itself, version-based vulnerability scans might lead to false positives. It is recommended to focus vulnerability scans on principle-based assessments. If compliance scanning tools require a specific MySQL version, you can [modify the server version number](/faq/high-reliability-faq.md#does-tidb-support-modifying-the-mysql-version-string-of-the-server-to-a-specific-one-that-is-required-by-the-security-vulnerability-scanning-tool) to meet the requirement.
```

> By changing the server version number, you can avoid false positives from vulnerability scanners. The [`server-version`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#server-version) value is used by TiDB nodes to verify the current TiDB version. Before upgrading the TiDB cluster, ensure that the `server-version` value is set to empty or the real version of TiDB to avoid unexpected behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By changing the server version number, you can avoid false positives from vulnerability scanners. The [`server-version`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#server-version) value is used by TiDB nodes to verify the current TiDB version. Before upgrading the TiDB cluster, ensure that the `server-version` value is either empty or the actual version of TiDB to avoid unexpected behavior.
```

---
title: Best Practices for TiDB Security Configuration

> summary: Introduces best practices for TiDB security configuration to help mitigate potential security risks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
summary: Learn the best practices for TiDB security configuration to help mitigate potential security risks.
```

---

# Best Practices for TiDB Security Configuration

The security of TiDB is crucial for protecting data integrity and confidentiality. This document provides guidelines for configuring TiDB clusters securely during deployment. By following these best practices, you can effectively reduce potential security risks, prevent data breaches, and ensure the continuous, stable, and reliable operation of your TiDB database system.

> > **Note：**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note:**
```

- For deployments using TiDB Operator, refer to [Set initial account and password](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-in-kubernetes/stable/initialize-a-cluster#set-initial-account-and-password) to set the root password.

## Enable password complexity checks

By default, TiDB does not enforce password complexity policies, which might lead to the use of weak or empty passwords, increasing security risks.

To ensure that database users create strong passwords, it is recommended to configure a reasonable [password complexity policy](/password-management.md#password-complexity-policy). For example, configure a policy that requires passwords to include a combination of uppercase letters, lowercase letters, numbers, and special characters. By enforcing password complexity checks, you can improve database security, prevent brute force attacks, reduce internal threats, ensure compliance with regulations, and lower the risk of data breaches, thus enhancing overall security.

## Change the default Grafana password

> TiDB installation includes the Grafana component by default, and the default username and password are typically `admin/admin`. If the password is not changed promptly, attackers could exploit this to gain control of the system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TiDB installation includes the Grafana component by default, and the default username and password are typically `admin`/`admin`. If the password is not changed promptly, attackers could exploit this to gain control of the system.
```

It is recommended to immediately change the Grafana password to a strong one during the TiDB deployment, and regularly update the password to ensure system security. Here are the steps to change the Grafana password:

- Upon first login to Grafana, follow the prompts to change the password.

>   ![Grafana Password Reset Guide](/media/grafana-password-reset1.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ![Grafana Password Reset Guide](/media/grafana-password-reset1.png)
```

- Access the Grafana personal configuration center to change the password.

>   ![Grafana Password Reset Guide](/media/grafana-password-reset2.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ![Grafana Password Reset Guide](/media/grafana-password-reset2.png)
```

## Enhance TiDB Dashboard security

### Use a least privilege user

TiDB Dashboard shares the account system with TiDB SQL users, and TiDB Dashboard authorization is based on TiDB SQL user permissions. TiDB Dashboard requires minimal permissions and can even operate with read-only access.

To enhance security, it is recommended to create a [least-privilege SQL user](/dashboard/dashboard-user.md) for accessing the TiDB Dashboard and to avoid using high-privilege users.

### Restrict access control

> By default, TiDB Dashboard is designed for trusted users. The default port includes additional API interfaces besides TiDB Dashboard. If you intend to allow access to TiDB Dashboard from external networks or untrusted users, take the following measures to avoid security vulnerabilities:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, TiDB Dashboard is designed for trusted users. The default port includes additional API interfaces besides TiDB Dashboard. If you want to allow access to TiDB Dashboard from external networks or untrusted users, take the following measures to avoid security vulnerabilities:
```

- Use a firewall or other mechanisms to restrict the default `2379` port to trusted domains, preventing access by external users.

>   > **Note:**
>   >
>   > TiDB, TiKV, and other components need to communicate with the PD component via the PD client port. Do not block internal network access between components, which will make the cluster unavailable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    > **Note:**
    >
    > TiDB, TiKV, and other components need to communicate with the PD component via the PD client port. Do not block internal network access between components, which will make the cluster unavailable.

```

- [Configure a reverse proxy](/dashboard/dashboard-ops-reverse-proxy.md#use-tidb-dashboard-behind-a-reverse-proxy) to securely provide TiDB Dashboard services to external users on a different port.

## Protect internal ports

> By default, TiDB installation includes several privileged interfaces for inter-component communication. These ports typically do not need to be accessible to users, as they are primarily for internal communication. Exposing these ports on public networks increases the attack surface, violates the principle of least privilege, and raises the risk of security vulnerabilities. The following table lists the default listening ports in a TiDB cluster:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, TiDB installation includes several privileged interfaces for inter-component communication. These ports typically do not need to be accessible to users, because they are primarily for internal communication. Exposing these ports on public networks increases the attack surface, violates the principle of least privilege, and raises the risk of security vulnerabilities. The following table lists the default listening ports in a TiDB cluster:
```
